We perform an expert pathologist review of the synthetic patches generated using both real and synthetic masks as the condition. We use 60 patches for this review, 20 from the real set with their corresponding masks from the dataset, 20 synthetic patches generated using real masks from the dataset, 20 synthetic patches that are generated using synthetic masks which are also sampled from our mask generation model. We have two experts assess these patches on four criterion (Figure \ref{fig:qual_review}). First, The consistency of the patch with the corresponding mask where the experts are asked to evaluate if the patch and their corresponding masks match accurately in terms of the nuclei delineation. We find that the synthetic patches both with real masks and synthetic masks perform slightly better than the real set. Second, if there are instances of unrecognizable nuclei types with respect to the annotated mask for each nuclei type in the patch. In this evaluation the experts are asked if the nuclei in the patch match their labels accurately. For each patch, the panel is asked to select the nuclei types that have at least one instance where they do not match the corresponding annotated label in the patch. The aim is to check if the model is able to generate convincing patterns in the synthetic patch for each type of nuclei. Overall, we observe that synthetic patches are evaluated identically to the real set across all nuclei types while generating more convincing plasma and eosinophils than even the real set. Third, if there are excess instances of nuclei in the mask with respect to the patch for each nuclei type, i.e. has the model failed to generate some nuclei that are present in the conditioning signal. The evaluators are asked to pick all nuclei types for which at least one instance is missing in the patch compared to the mask. The idea is to evaluate how effectively the model is able to generate all the nuclei instances that are present in the conditioning signal. Again, the synthetic patches are evaluated comparably to the real set across all types while doing much better for nuclei types like plasma, eosinophils, and connective cells. Finally fourth, if there are excess instances of nuclei in the patch with respect to the mask for each nuclei type. Here, the panel is asked to select the nuclei types for which the model has generated an extra nuclei in the patch that is not present in the conditioning signal. The idea here is to evaluate if the model is generating extra nuclei in the patch outside of the ones required by the mask it is conditioned on. From the evaluation, we observe that the synthesized images demonstrate comparable if not better metrics across all nuclei types with respect to the real set. Overall, the expert review establishes that our end-to-end histology patch generation method is able to synthesize realistic patches that are indistinguishable from real histology patches. The survey used for the review can be found on a public typeform survey\footnote{https://l7d0z1f5um1.typeform.com/to/IkAbnEOv}.

Additionally, visual analysis of the generated patches demonstrates the proficiency of our model in generating realistic visual patterns in synthetic histopathology images (refer Fig.~\ref{fig:qualitative}). We can see that the model is able to capture convincing visual structure for each type of nuclei. In the synthetic images, we can see that the lymphocytes are accurately circular, while neutrophils and eosinophils have a more lobed structure. We also observe that the model is able to mimic correct nucleus-to-cytoplasm ratios for each type of nuclei. Epithelial cells are less dense, have a distinct chromatin structure, and are larger compared to other white blood cells. Epithelial cells are most difficult to generate in a convincing manner, however, we can see that model is able to capture the nuances well and generates accurate chromatin distributions.
